# Changelog

All notable changes to casper-js-sdk.

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/), and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

<!--
  Please follow below structures.
  ## [1.1.1] - 2023-03-05
  ### Added
  ### Fixed
  ### Changed
  ### Removed
 -->

## [2.15.2] - 2023-8-4

### Fixed

- Reintroduced `getStateRootHash` fix as its not specific for `casper-node 1.5` ([#339](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/casper-js-sdk/pull/339))

## [2.15.1] - 2023-8-4

### Fixed

- Reverted broken 1.4.x compatibility. The version compatible with protocol version 1.5.x will be released as a separate one. ([#351](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/casper-js-sdk/issues/351))

## [2.15.0] - 2023-8-3

### Added

- `checkApproval` optional parameter (`false` by default) to the `deploy` method of `CasperServiceByJsonRPC` class. ([#348](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/casper-js-sdk/pull/348))

### Fixed

- Fixed JSON RPC request issues with 1.5 node. ([#339](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/casper-js-sdk/pull/339),[#344](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/casper-js-sdk/pull/344))

### Changed

- `waitForDeploy` method of `CasperServiceByJsonRPC` class now supports deploy hash in string

## [2.14.0] - 2023-7-11

### Fixed

- `StoredValue` TypedJSON serialization issue. ([#312](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/casper-js-sdk/pull/312))

### Added

- Added `BaseSigner` class for further wallet & signer integrations, support [`CasperWallet`](https://github.com/make-software/casper-wallet). ([#300](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/casper-js-sdk/pull/300))

- Support node URL without `/rpc` like `casper-client` does. ([#298](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/casper-js-sdk/pull/298))

- Added `to` field to the `TransferJson`. ([#312](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/casper-js-sdk/pull/312))

## 2.13.3

### Fixed

- Fixed to support 64 bytes Ed25519 private key generated using v2.10

## 2.13.2

### Fixed

- Fix for wrong signatures being generated for SECP256K1 keys - it was missing `der: false` setting in a function call

## 2.13.1

### Added

- New method `makeDeployWithAutoTimestamp` that fetches timestamp and then uses it to create deploy header. Recommended to use it in browsers env.

## 2.13.0

### Added

- Added `getEraSummary`
- Added `getEraSummaryByBlockHeight`
- Added Ed25519 HD Wallet support
- Added `timeout` param to all CasperServiceByJsonRPC methods
- Deterministic Asymmetric keys can be generated by using HD Wallet following [BIP-0032](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki)

### Changed

- Switched from `tweetnacl-ts` and `eccrypto` to `noble` libraries

## 2.12.1

### Fixed

- Fix in CI job that broke README.md attached to NPM Package and tgz archive to the release
- Fix links to the examples in docs

## 2.12.0

### Added

- HTTPS Event stream without breaking browsers support
- New docs generator
- Add missing types for `ExecutionResult`
- Added missing CLType `Any`
- Added tests in browser env
- Added source maps to build version

### Changed

- Move generated docs to github pages

## 2.11.1

### Removed

- Support for HTTPS/HTTP2 EventStream - as it caused problems in browser environment

## 2.11.0

### Added

- Support for checksumed mixed-case publickeys
- Support for HTTPS EventStream
- Extended test cases for `CasperServiceByJsonRPC`

### Changed

- `CLPublicKey.toHex()` now by default returns checksummed value. You can use it in legacy mode by calling it `CLPublicKey.toHex(false)` that way
- `CLPublicKey.fromHex()` now can get two arguments. The first one is string containing hex encoded public key, and the second one is a boolean value that indicates if you want to run checksum validation. When `true` is passed it will throw an error. Otherwise it will log warn to the console. We added this because we want to support users who store the non-checksumed publickeys and need time to adapt
- `AccountHash` now can be serialized to bytes (it's an alias)
- Some internal optimalization (in `matchByteParserByCLType`)

### Fixed

- Issues with parsing broken deploys

## 2.10.2

### Fixed

- Updated ts-results dependency of our own fork to fix some compiling issues

## 2.10.1

### Fixed

- Updated exports so more conversion fuctions are now public
- Added typings to `JsonExecutableDeployItem`
- Fixed how the `EventStream` URL is build
- Replaced `ts-results` dependency for our [own fork](https://github.com/CasperLabs/ts-results) because of the conflicting config

## 2.10.0

### Added

- Added signatures verification in `validateDeploy` method.
- Added `queryBalance` (will be supported in casper-node 1.5 - RPC name `query_balance`) method in `CasperServiceByJsonRPC`.
- Added `speculativeDeploy` (will be supported in casper-node 1.5 - RPC name `speculative_exec`) method in `CasperServiceByJsonRPC`.
- Better documented RPC methods .
- Added `csprToMotes` - motes/cspr converter in `Conversions`.
- Extended PublicKey class API with two new methods, allowing to get publicKey tag type or its corresponding signature algo type.

### Fixed

- `getStateRootHash` (RPC name `chain_get_state_root_hash`) can now correctly support `block_hash` argument.

## 2.9.1

### Fixed

- Got rid of unnecessary instanceof.
- Reverted StoredValue and added `{ rawData: boolean }` to `getDictionaryItemByName` and `getDictionaryItemByURef`.

## 2.9.0

### Added

- Now all stored value contains raw JSON from RPC under `raw` key.
- New method `getValidatorsInfoByBlockHeight` added.

### Changed

- `targetPublicKeyHex` is now optional in `Signer` class.

## 2.8.0

### Added

- Added support to `CLPublicKey` passed as argument to `CLKey` (it gets serialized to `account-hash` when serializing).
- New `Contracts` class that basically acts as contract client (possible to install WASM, call an entrypoint, query state or dictionary).
- Added `getDictionaryItemByName` that uses `state_get_dictionary_item` with `dictionary_name` and `dictionary_item_key`
- Added `sign` and `send` method on `Deploy` class.

## 2.7.9

### Fixed

- Fixed problems with CLResult when it got created using different version of ts-results.

## 2.7.8

### Fixed

- Fixed problems with deserialization Tuples containing CLType which includes length parameter (eg. CLByteArray).

## 2.7.7

### Changed

- Version 2.0 is now @latest.
- README updated.

## 2.7.6

### Fixed

- Fixes wrong logic in newTransferWithOptionalTransferId() method.

## 2.7.5

### Fixed

- Fixes problems with Lists containing multiple Keys containing Hash or ByteArray.
- Fixes problem with ByteArray with size different than 32 bytes.

## 2.7.4

### Fixed

- Fixes problems with `getBlockInfo` and mixed case block hashes.

## 2.7.3

### Added

- Added types missing in OpenRPC library

## 2.7.2

### Fixed

- Fix for bundling all of the existing types defined in the library.

## 2.7.1

### Fixed

- Added support for mixed case hex representation of public keys introduced in `casper-node` `1.4.2`.

## 2.7.0

### Changed

- Now `target` in transfer is represented by `PublicKey` instead of `account-hash`.

## 2.6.2

### Added

- Now minimal bundle without any polyfills included is a part of distribution package.

## 2.6.1

### Fixed

- Added workaround for historical deploys with invalid serialized `0`.

## 2.6.0

### Added

- Added `CasperProvider`

## 2.5.2

### Fixed

- Problem when serializing U128, U256 ad U512 `toBytes`.

## 2.5.1

### Fixed

- Added stronger validation to `PublicKey.fromHex` method
- Fix for deploy's `execution_result` type signatures
- Fix instanceof problem in `CLValueParser` which caused problems when two different versions of SDK was used in one project
- Signer methods fixes

## 2.5.0

### Added

- `signMessage` - added method to sign arbitrary string message
- `verifyMessageSignature` - added method to verify signature of arbitrary string message

## 2.4.1

### Fixed

- `EventStream` - fixed problems with multiple data chunks parsing

## 2.4.0

### Added

- `DeployWatcher` added

## 2.3.0

### Added

- `state_get_dictionary_item` with URef support in `getDictionaryItemByURef` implemented

## 2.2.3

### Fixed

- `StoredValue` parsing access param hotfixed

## 2.2.2

### Fixed

- `CLMap` fix for empty maps from bytes
- `CLMap` replaced problematic Map implementation

## 2.2.1

### Fixed

- `EventStream` now properly handle invalid JSONs

## 2.2.0

### Added

- `EventStream` added

## 2.1.0

### Fixed

- `state-get-item` due to RPC changes
- `CLList` as empty list initialization from JSON

### Added

- `getBlockTransfers`, `getEraInfoBySwitchBlock`, `getEraInfoBySwitchBlockHeight` methods to `CasperServiceByJsonRPC`

## 2.0.1

### Changed

- `DeployUtil.deployFromJson` returns now `Result<Deploy, Error>` instead of `Deploy | undefined`. `Error` has a `message` inside.

## 2.0.0

### Changed

- Caution! This release contains rewritten CLValue from scratch, there are some breaking changes so consider it before upgrading.
- Removed `CLTypedAndToBytesHelper` to have consistent way of creating new CLValues by using `new CLBool(true)` or `CLValueBuilder.bool(true)`
- Removed `CLTypeHelper` have consistent way of creating new CLValues by using `new CLBoolType()` or `CLTypeBuilder.bool()`
- `CLValue` static methods now are moved to `CLValueBuilder` eg. `CLValueBuilder.u512`
- Every class inheriting from `CLValue` is now named with `CL` prefix, bigger naming changes:
  - `StringValue` -> `CLString`
  - `KeyValue` -> `CLKey`
  - `MapValue` -> `CLMap`
  - `Option` -> `CLOption`
- There are API changes in `CLResult`

```
const myTypesComplex = {
  ok: new CLListType(new CLListType(new CLU8Type())),
  err: new CLOptionType(new CLListType(new CLListType(new CLU8Type())))
};

const myOkComplexRes = new CLResult( Ok(new CLList([new CLList([new CLU8(5), new CLU8(10), new CLU8(15)])])), myTypesComplex );
```

- There are API changes in `CLOption` - now it requires `Some` or `None` wrappers as argument (from `ts-result` library).
- Now all the serialization methods are not connected to `CLValue` anymore - `toJSON`, `fromJSON`, `toBytes`, `fromBytes` needs to be called with `CLValueParsers` eg. `CLValueParser.toJSON(CLValueBuilder.string("ABC"))`
- Renamed methods in `CLPublicKey`:
  - `toAccountHex` -> `toHex` - old name led to misunderstandings as in fact this is hex representation of `public-key` prefixed with key-type.
  - added method `toAccountHashStr` - this methods returns string containing account hash in hex form prefixed with `account-hash-`.

## 1.4.4

### Changed

- Experimental release with `@next` tag.

## 1.4.3

### Changed

- Changed repo name and npm package name from `casper-client-sdk` to `casper-js-sdk`.

## 1.4.2

### Added

- `newTransferWithoutObligatoryId` renamed to `newTransferWithOptionalTransferId`

## 1.4.1

### Added

- `newTransferWithoutObligatoryId` restores the function that gives abilitity to send transfer without providing id.

## 1.4.0

### Changed

- `Signer.sign` now requires deploy in JSON format, `public-key hex` of a sender and `public-key hex` of a target.

## 1.3.4

### Added

- `Signer.getVersion` returns running version of Signer.

## 1.3.3

### Fixed

- `Keys.SECP256K1.new()` and other SECP256K1 releated methods now can work in a browser environment.

## 1.3.2

### Added

- `DeployUtil.deployToBytes(deploy)` returns an `Uint8Array`, which is a byte representation of a deploy.

## 1.3.1

### Changed

- Added `newTransferToUniqAddress` and `UniqAddress`.
- Fix in `newTransfer` - `id` now can be `0`

## 1.3.0

### Changed

- Removed EventStore from codebase.
- `CasperClient.getDeployByHashFromRPC` is now `CasperClient.getDeploy`.
- Fixed problems with `deployFromJson` caused by missing support for deserialization TTL values other than `ms`.

## 1.2.0

### Changed

- BIP-44 Index changed from `748` to `506`. It follows https://github.com/satoshilabs/slips/blob/master/slip-0044.md. All secret and public keys dervied using `CasperHDKey` class will change.

## 1.1.0

### Changed

- `transfer-id` is required parameter in `DeployUtils.newTransfer`.

## 1.0.44

### Added

- Support `disconnectFromSite` method from the Signer.

## 1.0.43

### Fixed

- Missign interface for `getActivePublicKey` method from the Signer.

## 1.0.42

### Added

- Support `getActivePublicKey` method from the Signer.

## 1.0.41

### Added

- `DeployUtils.deployFromJson` verifies `Deploy`'s `hash` and `bodyHash`. If not matching return `undefined`, so the interface doesn't change.

## 1.0.40

### Changed

- New url for docs.

## 1.0.39

### Fixed

- Reverted usage of `TextEncoder` to support Node.js versions < 11.

## 1.0.38

### Fixed

- Problem with U32 deserialization (and all values that uses Buffer polyfill).

## 1.0.37

### Changed

- Changed the default `Deploy`'s ttl from 1h to 30min.

## 1.0.36

### Fixed

- Fixed Delegator interface shape

## 1.0.35

### Changed

- Validate the size of the `Deploy`. Now `CasperServiceByJsonRPC.deploy` throws an error if the size of the deploy is larger then 1 megabyte.`

## 1.0.34

### Fixed

- Problems with Buffer polyfill not working in browser

## 1.0.32

### Added

- `CasperServiceByJsonRPC.getBlockInfoByHeight(height)`

### Fixed

- `CasperServiceByJsonRPC.getBlockInfo(hash)` to return requested block, not the last one.

## 1.0.25

### Added

- Added UMD bundle into npm package.

## 1.0.24

### Added

- Adds `protocol_version` to the `JsonHeader`.

### Fixed

- Fixes `ValidatorInfoResult` for casper-node ^0.9.0 (creates `AuctionState` interface).

## 1.0.23

### Changed

- Removes use of `Buffer` in `parseKeyPair()` and instead creates new `Uint8Array` concatenating public and private keys for use as secret key in Ed25519 key pair.

## 1.0.22

### Fixed

- Parsing `ExecutableDeployItem`'s `StoredContractByHash` from JSON to the `ExecutableDeployItem` object.

## 1.0.21

### Added

- `CasperClient.getDeployByHashFromRPC` allows for getting `Deploy` instance from the Node's RPC.

### Fixed

- Secp keys generator returns `Uint8Array` instead of `Buffer`.

### Changed

- `CLValue.publicKey` accepts `PublicKey` object.

## 1.0.20

### Fixed

- Deserialize `Deploy.hash` to `Uint8Array` instead of `Buffer`.

## 1.0.19

### Added

- `CLValue.isList` and `CLValue.asList`.

### Fixed

- BytesArrayValue's fromBytes.

## 1.0.18

### Added

- Partial support for the Contract object under StoredValue.

### Fixed

- Deploy's body hash derivation.

## 1.0.17

### Added

- Added `DeployUtils.addArgToDeploy(deploy: Deploy, name: string, value: CLValue)` to be able to modify Deploy's session arguments. It creates a new deploy instance. Can not be used on signed deploys.

### Changed

- Default `gasPrice` changed from `10` to `1`.
- Casper balances checks return `BigNumber` now.

## 1.0.15

### Added

- Started using CHANGELOG.md.

### Changed

- Changed CLValue's `value` to `value()` and `remainder` to `remainder()`.

<!-- Add version compare links here -->

[unreleased]: https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/casper-js-sdk/compare/2.13.0...dev
[2.14.0]: https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/casper-js-sdk/compare/2.13.3...2.14.0
